---
layout: post
title:  "Install RsyncOSX"
permalink: Install
---
See important info about how to use [RsyncOSX and rsync](/HowtoUseRsyncOSX). There is also a short [intro](/Intro) to RsyncOSX.

## Download link and install

RsyncOSX is released in version 5.3.9 (22 July 2018). There are two methods for install, either (1) copy the app from dmg files into a selected folder or use the (2) installer file to install in `/Application` folder. The pkg files are not signed. It is **not** required to install the [RsyncOSXsched.app](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncOSXsched). RsyncOSXsched.app is for scheduled backups only.

See [releases](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncOSX/releases/tag/v5.3.9) for downloads.

#### Install RsyncOSX.dmg or  RsyncOSX-5.3.9.pkg

- shasum RsyncOSX.dmg: bc7de7870bf2051011de1a43dc2fe3590f4983f3
- shasum RsyncOSX-5.3.9.pkg: b8862a132840eac1354000005b7d0e08833fc207

To install RsyncOSX open the downloaded `RsyncOSX.dmg` file, copy the RsyncOSX.app to a folder in your home catalog or any other catalog. The installer, `RsyncOSX-5.3.9.pkg`, copy the application files in the `/Application` folder. The installer require admin rights to install.

The `RsyncOSX-5.3.9.pkg` is **not** signed, the RsyncOSX app within the .pkg file is signed. MacOSX might force you to open the security preferences to enable installing the .pkg file.

#### Version 3.1.3 of rsync

See readme.txt within dmg file for how to manually install version rsync 3.1.3.

The application is installed and used at your own risk and developer accepts no responsibility for any errors, omissions or loss of data by using the application. The application is signed with my Apple Developer ID certificate.

## Passwordless logins and remote servers

Backup to *remote servers* require *ssh passwordless* logins by utilizing ssh-keygen to create a ssh private and public key pair. RsyncOSX can assist in setting up [passwordless](/ssh) logins or use the instructions in [setup passwordless logins](/PasswordlessLogin).

## YouTube videos

There are four short YouTube videos of RsyncOSX:

- [getting](https://youtu.be/MrT8NzdF9dE) RsyncOSX and installing it
  - the video also shows how to create the two local ssh certificates for password less logins to remote server
- adding and executing the [first backup](https://youtu.be/8oe1lKgiDx8)
- doing a full [restore](https://youtu.be/-R6n_8fl6Ls) to a temporary local restore catalogs
- how to change [version of rsync](https://youtu.be/mVFL25-lo6Y) utilized by RsyncOSX


## Idea behind RsyncOSX

I have two MacBooks, one is used primarily at work and the other is my private. Data is backed up to server (NAS) at home and to one offsite servers. Both MacBooks and all backup locations are kept in sync. I am using my private MacBook for Pictures (I have about 100 GB of raw picture files). Whenever I have added new picture files or done some work on pictures, changes are backup up on all servers and then restored on my MacBook used at work. The rsync command-line tool is one of the best tools around for backup and synchronizing storage. A GUI on top of rsync might hide all the details about parameters to rsync and make rsync execute the correct actions.

Some more details about the [idea](/Idea) for RsyncOSX.
