---
layout: post
title:  "About RsyncOSX"
permalink: AboutRsyncOSX
---
Before installing and using RsyncOSX there are some important information to read and understand. The first document is how to get and install RsyncOSX. The second document is some information what RsyncOSX is and how to use the application. Please read the second document before using RsyncOSX.

 - getting and installing [RsyncOSX](/Install)
 - important [information](/HowtoUseRsyncOSX) about what RsyncOSX is
 - the [changelog](/Changelog)
 - some info about signing and [notarizing](/Notarized) of RsyncOSX

Rsync is a file-based synchronization and backup tool. There is no custom solution for the backup archive. You can quit utilizing RsyncOSX (and rsync) at any time and still have access to all synchronized files. Be sure you understand the basics how rsync works before using RsyncOSX.

#### About bugs and crash?

What happens if bugs occurs during execution of tasks in RsyncOSX? The command line tool `rsync` is designed to continue where rsync is by any reason, stopped or killed. Users can abort execution of tasks at any time. To continue an aborted task execute the task again and rsync will restart and complete the task. This is also true if a bug in RsyncOSX occurs during execution of a task.

If RsyncOSX does halt or crash during operation there is no damage to files or deletion of files in the `source`. The `source` is only read during `synchronize` and `snapshot` tasks.

### About restoring files to a temporary restore catalog

If you do a **restore** from the `remote` to the `source`, some files in the source might be deleted. This is due to how rsync works in `synchronize` mode. As a precaution **never** do a restore directly from the `remote` to the `source`, always do a restore to a temporary restore catalog.

### Using RsyncOSX

The following are documents about using RsyncOSX:
- a short [intro](/Intro) to RsyncOSX
- [adding configurations](/AddConfigurations) (backup and restore)
- executing [single tasks](/SingleTask) (configurations)
- utilizing the [snapshot feature](/Snapshots)
- utilizing the [quick backup feature](/Quickbackup)
- executing [batch tasks](/BatchTask)
- either execute a [full restore](/Fullrestore) of backups or restore of [single files or catalogs](/CopySingleFiles)
- [scheduling](/ScheduleTasks) of tasks
- some info about [logging](/Logging) execution of tasks
- some info about [user configuration](/UserConfiguration)
- for [encrypted](/Encrypted) backups
- for [automatic](/Automatic) backups

### Passwordless logins

Using RsyncOSX for backup to remote servers require to setup ssh passwordless login. What is ssh passwordless login? By using ssh private and public pair of keys enables a more secure method to login to remote servers without password. RsyncOSX can assist you in setting up [passwordless logins](/ssh)  or you can enable passwordless logins [manually](/PasswordlessLogin).

## Rsync

The default version of `rsync` in macOS is old (version 2.6.9, [protocol](https://rsync.samba.org/how-rsync-works.html) version 29). Version [2.6.9](https://download.samba.org/pub/rsync/src/rsync-2.6.9-NEWS) was released in nov 2006. The current release of rsync is version [3.1.3](https://download.samba.org/pub/rsync/src/rsync-3.1.3-NEWS) protocol 31 released 28 January 2018. There are at least three options to get and install the current version of rsync for use in RsyncOSX:

- get `rsync-3.1.3.dmg` from [releases](https://github.com/rsyncOSX/RsyncOSX/releases) to install the latest version of rsync
- install Xcode and download the rsync [source](https://rsync.samba.org/) from rsync.samba.org
	- required tools are `gcc` and `make` which are part of Xcode command line tool (you might be able to install Xcode command line tool only by downloading the tools from [Apple Developer page](https://developer.apple.com/))
	- untar the [source archive](https://download.samba.org/pub/rsync/src/) and use `make` to compile and install, rsync compiles without any issues on macOS
- install [homebrew](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homebrew_(package_management_software)) and then install rsync as part of homebrew

In RsyncOSX select [user configuration](/UserConfiguration) and set path for optional version of rsync.

## My own NAS setup

I have setup up my own [NAS](/DIYNAS). I am doing backups by using RsyncOSX and sharing out disk by AFP and SMB.

## MacUpdate and Softpedia

RsyncOSX is also released on [MacUpdate](https://www.macupdate.com/app/mac/56516/rsyncosx) and linked for download on [Softpedia](http://mac.softpedia.com/get/Internet-Utilities/RsyncOSX.shtml) as well. RsyncOSX does also inform users about new releases and link to download new version.

## RcloneOSX, a GUI for rclone

A intro to [RcloneOSX](/RcloneIntro), a GUI for [rclone](https://rclone.org/). The [rclone changelog](/RcloneChangelog).

## The Source

There are some documents about [the source code](/Source)
